# Baseline Java code quality plugins

*Baseline Java* is a collection of Gradle plugins for configuring code quality tools
([Checkstyle](http://checkstyle.sourceforge.net) for style and formatting checks,
[FindBugs](http://findbugs.sourceforge.net/) for catching common bugs, and Eclipse/IntelliJ code style and formatting
configurations) for Gradle builds and for Gradle-generated Eclipse and IntelliJ projects.

The Baseline plugins are compatible with Gradle 2.2.1 and above.






## Quick start
- Extract the `baseline-config-<version>.zip` (available from the
[Bintray](https://bintray.com/palantir/releases/gradle-jacoco-coverage) repository) file into the `.baseline` directory
of a Gradle root project.
- Add the Baseline plugins to the `build.gradle` configuration of the Gradle project:

```
buildscript {
    dependencies {
        classpath 'com.palantir:gradle-baseline-java:<version>'
    }
}

// Apply plugins selectively depending on required functionality.
apply plugin: 'baseline-checkstyle'
apply plugin: 'baseline-eclipse'
apply plugin: 'baseline-findbugs'
apply plugin: 'baseline-idea'
```

- Any subsequent ``./gradlew build`` invokes Checkstyle and FindBugs as part of the build and test tasks (if the
respective baseline-xyz plugins are applied).
- The ``eclipse`` and ``idea`` Gradle tasks generate projects pre-configured with Baseline settings:

   - Code style and code formatting rules conforming with Baseline style
   - Checkstyle and FindBugs configuration

  Note that the Checkstyle-IDEA plugin is required to run the Baseline Checkstyle within IntelliJ.




## Plugin Architecture Overview

The Baseline plugins `baseline-checkstyle`, `baseline-eclipse`, `baseline-findbugs`, `baseline-idea` apply the
configuration present in `.baseline` to the respective Gradle tasks. For example, any Gradle Checkstyle tasks uses the
Checkstyle configuration in `.baseline/checkstyle/checkstyle.xml`, and any IntelliJ/Eclipse project generated by
`./gradlew eclipse idea` is configured with Baseline code formatting and Checkstyle rules. Note that each of these
plugins automatically applies the underlying Gradle plugin: `baseline-checkstyle` applies `checkstyle`,
`baseline-eclipse` applies `eclipse`, etc.





## Configuration

The standard Gradle configuration options for the underlying plugins (Eclipse, IntelliJ, Checkstyle, FindBugs) can be
used, with the following exception:

- `checkstyle.configFile` - not compatible with Baseline since the file location is hard-coded to
`.baseline/checkstyle/checkstyle.xml`






## Advanced usage

### Multiple-project builds

All `baseline-xyz` plugins can be applied selectively to subprojects. For example:

    buildscript {
        dependencies {
            classpath 'com.palantir:gradle-baseline-java:<version>'
        }
    }

    apply plugin: 'baseline-idea'

    subprojects {
        apply plugin: 'java'
        apply plugin: 'baseline-checkstyle'
        apply plugin: 'baseline-idea'
    }

Depending on the Gradle setup, you may need to edit `gradle/shared.gradle` (or similar) instead. Feel free to contact
the Baseline mailing list for troubleshooting.


### Applying Baseline plugins selectively or all at once

The `baseline` plugin applies `baseline-checkstyle`, `baseline-eclipse`, `baseline-findbugs`, `baseline-idea` to the
current project. In order to use only Checkstyle and IntelliJ support from Baseline, apply the required plugins
selectively, e.g.:

    buildscript {
        dependencies {
            classpath 'com.palantir:gradle-baseline-java:<version>'
        }
    }

    apply plugin: 'baseline-idea'
    subprojects {
        apply plugin: 'baseline' // Applies all baseline-xyz plugins
    }





### Checkstyle Plugin (baseline-checkstyle)

Checkstyle rules can be suppressed on a per-line or per-block basis. (It is good practice to first consider formatting
the code block in question according to the project's style guidelines before adding suppression statements.) To
suppress a particular check, say `MagicNumberCheck`, from an entire class or method, annotate the class or method with
the lowercase check name without the "Check" suffix:

    @SuppressWarnings("checkstyle:magicnumber")

To suppress a check from a single line, add the following to the previous line, or after the line.  For example, to
ignore the `MagicNumberCheck`:

    reverseEngineerQuestion(42); // CHECKSTYLE IGNORE MagicNumberCheck

To disable Checkstyle for a set of lines, surround the lines with:

    // CHECKSTYLE:OFF
    bad code!
    // CHECKSTYLE:ON

Finally, to disable certain checks for an entire file, apply [custom
suppressions](http://checkstyle.sourceforge.net/config.html).


### Eclipse Plugin (baseline-eclipse)

Run `./gradlew eclipse` to repopulate projects from the templates in `.baseline`.

The `baseline-eclipse` plugin automatically applies the `eclipse` plugin.

If `sourceCompatibility` is set, it is used to configure the Eclipse project settings and the Eclipse JDK version. Note
that `targetCompatibility` is also honored and defaults to `sourceCompatibility`.

Generated Eclipse projects have default per-project code formatting rules as well as Checkstyle and FindBugs
configuration.

The Eclipse plugin is compatible the following versions: Checkstyle 6.5+, FindBugs 3.0.0+, JDK 1.7, 1.8


### IntelliJ Plugin (baseline-idea)

Run `./gradlew idea` to (re-) generate IntelliJ project and module files from the templates in `.baseline`. The
generated project is pre-configured with Baseline code style settings and support for the Checkstyle-IDEA plugin.

The `baseline-idea` plugin automatically applies the `idea` plugin.

Generated IntelliJ projects have default per-project code formatting rules as well as Checkstyle configuration. The JDK
and Java language level settings are picked up from the Gradle `sourceCompatibility` property on a per-module basis.


### FindBugs Plugin (baseline-findbugs)

Checks can be suppressed by annotating the class/method/field in question with:

    @SuppressFBWarning("BUG_PATTERN_NAME")

The BUG_PATTERN_NAME can be derived from the "Pattern" field in the Eclipse Bug Info View.

More complicated filters can be handled via the `.baseline/findbugs/excludeFilter.xml` file; see [FindBugs
documentation](http://findbugs.sourceforge.net/manual/filter.html) for details.


### Jacoco Coverage Plugin (jacoco-coverage)

Palantir also maintains the [GitHub: jacoco-coverage](https://github.com/palantir/gradle-jacoco-coverage) plugin which
enforces minimum code coverage thresholds.
